in this lesson i want to cover the
purpose of service level agreements so
when we think about those skills that
are being assessed we're now diving into
this last little group
and we're looking at well describe azure
service level agreements and service
life cycles and so in this lesson we're
going to look at the first two
well what is the purpose of an sla and
how that can be impacted
in the last lesson we'll look at that
service life cycle so we're going to
finish off those last few components
now if i think about the cloud many
elements of the service are the
responsibility of the cloud provider
i don't have control over the physical
fabric or the hypervisor and depending
if it's pairs
operating system and many other aspects
so as a customer i want to understand
what i can expect what is the commitment
from that cloud provider
about the availability of the service
that i'm paying money for
and so service level agreements
provide exactly that
now the whole point of a service level
agreement is often you'll hear about a
certain number of nines
this is all about the availability of
that service for example if i see two
nines
that's 99 availability so if i was
thinking per week
i how much it can be down
well at two nines means each week it can
be down for 1.68
hours
or quite a lot of time
but if we then start going to three
nines so 99.9 percent sla well then that
goes down to 10.1
minutes
if you then start expanding that out to
99.95 which is actually a fairly common
number
now you're down to five minutes of
downtime
if we can get to four nines
when it gets even better now we're down
to basically
1.01 minute of downtime
and if you could
if you had like five nines
well now you're down to six seconds of
downtime a week
and obviously you can extrapolate that
out to monthly annually etc
and so
microsoft has slas for its various
services and these are all called out in
an sla document so if we go and look
right now
firstly we'll start off the service
level agreement page
and it breaks it down by all the
different types of services so i might
say hey compute and obvious one is
virtual machines
so go ahead and look at the sla for
and at the top it gives kind of this
summary idea
and what we can see here is we see this
first number
and we see 99.99
fantastic so four nines
but what's super important about that
value
is
it stresses the point you have two or
more instances deployed across two or
more availability zones
in the same azure region
so the point here is you can get a four
nines sla
but to get that four nines sla
remember we think about the idea that
remember you have a region
and then within that region it's made up
of those different physical facilities
that are exposed to each subscription
your c3 kind of that az1 2 and 3.
so what that sla is saying hey if you
want the four nines
well i need to have
basically at least two vms that are part
of that service so they'd probably be
behind a standard load balancer that was
zone redundant to make the load balancer
resilient against the zone failure as
well and then that combination
those together
and it's minimum i probably also have
one over here as well
this gets me
the
99.99 sla for the compute so
availability zones impact the sla
because basically you're saying hey
i'm spreading my service over multiple a
z's so as microsoft they can feel more
secure offering a better sla because
they know hey we have independent power
cooling networking to each of those
facilities so even if one had a problem
chances are the other one is still up
and running so availability zones have a
big impact on a lot of the types of slas
but if you go back to the document
what about if you're not
well then it talks about okay well we
also have this idea of 99.95
and here what you have to do is have two
or more instances deployed in the same
availability set
or the same dedicated host group
so what this is now doing
is it's a lesser sla
because now
the commitment is well remember within
those availability zones there are racks
of servers
so there's different racks of servers
within here
and what an availability set does is an
availability set
distributes the workloads over
multiple racks
and so now what we have is well we know
we have a vm here and a vm here within
that availability set so that is not as
good as an availability zone which is a
different physical building let's kind
of write those out
for your notes
but it's still pretty good they have
separate power supply units and network
switching so at this point if i use an
availability set
well okay
99.95
sla so it goes down because i don't have
as much isolation between them
but what about if i don't do that so
then you start getting into these ideas
of single instance virtual machines
and then really the sla depends on the
type of disc you're using because
depending on the type of disc
they have different
resiliences on the storage fabric
so basically if i'm using in this case
premium or ultra
for all os then you can get three nines
if i'm using standard ssd well i can get
99.5 if i'm using standard hard disk
drive it's 95 which is kind of sad
um so
if you get into the single instances
then that's where okay then it comes
down to the type of disk i'm using
because at this point i've just got a
single kind of
vm sitting here and so it completely
depends on what is that disk that's
going to drive the sla for a single
instance that's why i'd pick a better
disk and this is just vms we're looking
at but all of the services have their
own slas and you get more detail
if we keep going down will we get an
introduction
to the point of slas
it gives you the idea that they are
financially backed so you're eligible
for a credit towards a portion of the
monthly service fees of the sla is not
met
it has general terms about what all the
different things mean
how you make the various claims what the
service credits will be
any limitations around it and then the
sla details itself
and hey this is the service credit you
get if the uptime is less than whatever
these percentages are
you can go through for every single type
of service
and go and see this
now how do you know if the service was
impacted
so there is the azure status board
so here i can go and see for all the
different regions all the different
services and their current availability
and of course as we saw previously you
can always go to your service health
dashboard in your subscription
to get more detail actually about it
so this is all great
this is all the idea that hey i have an
sla
for
a resource
let's say this is 99.9
but what about if i use two resources i
need both of them maybe this is a
compute service and this is a storage
account or something
you get the idea of a composite
and the composite sla is not 99.9
because they're each 99.9 because think
about logically
both of these have to be up and running
for my overall service to work
so my actual composite sla is going to
be less
it's going to be kind of 0.999
times 0.999 so it's going to be a
smaller number
so it's going to reduce
now alternatively there's a chance that
well maybe for this back-end database
i have
another type of service that can be used
if this one wasn't available
so this now becomes kind of this or
relationship
so this has to be there but either one
of these so this will improve the sla
because now i'm looking at well
what is the chance of it not being
available and then what's the
probability of them both being
unavailable at the same time
so this now becomes kind of this point
zero zero one times point zero zero one
so it starts to become this tiny tiny
minimal number
but then you still have to
times it by the resiliency of the other
service
and the microsoft document goes through
an example of this so if we go and jump
over to the architecture center
we can see the idea of understanding
service level agreements and composite
slas
so their example here
is talking about a web app
talking to a sql database so imagine
it's just those top two
and it's saying that composite sla would
be exactly what we just talked about
in this case 99.95 times 99.99
well that's going to be lower than
either number so it becomes
99.94 so i get a lower composite sla
than any of the individuals which again
you would expect
because there's a chance either one of
them could be down and if either one of
them are down my whole service is down
but then what they're adding in is this
kind of resiliency for the sql database
for our queue
so now one of them is four nines one of
them is three nines and exactly as i
drew on the board well now the composite
sla of that storage layer
is the chance of them not being
available at the same time which is
minuscule
it's almost it's not going to happen so
its availability is this massive
99.99999
i almost a hundred percent
so with that in mind
the complete composite sla is really
just the sla
of the web app which is at 99.95
and then
basically 100
which means the composite sla ends up as
basically being the same as that of the
web app
so there are things you can do to
improve your slas
by architecture we can generally get a
better sla
if we can add in this all relationship
because now it's in our favor what are
the chances of both of them being hit at
the same time
it's low
the more and relationships the worse my
composite sla is going to get
now in reality
there's really this
line
that it's super difficult to get beyond
four nines
five nines is incredibly hard to achieve
you have to think about every service
that is involved
by using azure id
azure id as a four nines sla
it's very hard to have an alternative to
azure ad
so the reality is in the cloud
it's nearly impossible to get beyond
four nines because many of the
underlying services you're gonna rely on
are four nines slas at best
so understand hey there's these
different types of slas
understand availability zones will
generally improve my sla because it's an
all relationship as long as i've got
instances in multiple availability zones
and then my overall service sla
is well does it require them all to be
there
to run
in which case it's going to decrease my
overall composite sla
or
are they alternatives to give me
resiliency from one failing which case
it will improve my overall composite sla
so
that's the key and it's important to
really understand those